# Incucyte-analysis-toolbox

This is a toolbox for tracking and analyzing cell motility based on live-cell phase-contrast images acquired on an Essen Bioscience Incucyte Imager. ## Dependencies
MATLAB (required to run scripts)Imaris (for cell tracking)MSD analyzer tool for MATLAB (https://github.com/tinevez/msdanalyzer)Optional:Ilastik (for cell segmentation and spot detection) http://ilastik.org/## Workflow
Export data from Incucyte as individual tiff files for each imageRun tiff_to_series.m to convert data to tiff stacksPerform cell segmentation in ilastik (I use 2-stage autocontext, followed by object classification to further refine segmentation if necessary)Export final segmentation as binary imageRun ilastik_spots_segmented.m to detect spots based on segmentation imageOpen original tiff stack in Imaris and run ImportSpots.m with corresponding ‘spots’ .mat file to import spotsVerify that spots match the cells… may need to adjust the scale if it does not matchTrack spots in Imaris (I use ‘Autoregressive Motion’)Manually verify tracks and correct if necessaryExport track statistics to csv files (make sure to select statistics of interest in Imaris preferences)To calculate arrest coefficient, run csv_arrest_coefficient.mRun csv_position_imaris.m to convert tracks to a format that @msdanalyzer will recognizeRun tmap.m to classify transient periods in tracks as directed, constrained, or random motion.

## Acknowledgements
Many of these scripts were originally written by Alexander Carisey and adapted for this work.## References
Khorshidi, M. A., Vanherberghen, B., Kowalewski, J. M., Garrod, K. R., Lindstrom, S., Andersson-Svahn, H., . . . Onfelt, B. (2011). Analysis of transient migration behavior of natural killer cells imaged in situ and in vitro. Integr Biol (Camb), 3(7), 770-778. doi:10.1039/c1ib00007aSommer, C., Straehle, C., Köthe, U., & Hamprecht, F. A. (2011, March 30 2011-April 2 2011). Ilastik: Interactive learning and segmentation toolkit. Paper presented at the 2011 IEEE International Symposium on Biomedical Imaging: From Nano to Macro.Tarantino, N., Tinevez, J.-Y., Crowell, E. F., Boisson, B., Henriques, R., Mhlanga, M., . . . Laplantine, E. (2014). TNF and IL-1 exhibit distinct ubiquitin requirements for inducing NEMO–IKK supramolecular structures. The Journal of Cell Biology, 204(2), 231. 